---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E1 UI Basics Technical Blog
date: 2020-09-15
labels:
  - Blog
  - WODs
---
Overall, I found the WODs quite fun to complete because competing with myself and watching myself beat old times. I also noticed that I would get faster and faster which was very fun and satisfying. I, however, struggled quite a bit on my WODs when starting, mainly because I would go blank and forget how to complete the next step. To combat this, between WODs, I would review my notes and take notes on the screencast, as well as try to work them out without the pressure of the time so I would feel more comfortable.

For BrowserHistory1, my fastest time made it into the Average Time. I am quite proud of this because it was my first time creating a WOD. On this WOD in particular, I struggled with creating the table of contents because of the internal links. But after I watched the screencast and took notes to review it became easier. I found BrowserHistory2 the easiest personally, I was also able to finish it in the Rx time, but something I trouble with was clearing the cache for the CSS. For BrowserHistory3, I had to review my notes a lot especially on how to make column sections and a navigation bar. But it became much easier after I watched the screencast. 

My main advice to classmates would be to take notes when watching the screencast and try to complete your WOD soon after watching the screen cast so it’s still fresh in your brain. Also if you get stuck checking your notes and continuing to complete the WOD works well as it reminds you of the process. Personally doing this made it  a lot easier for me to complete from memory because it connects the steps together compared to stopping reviewing notes then restarting.
