---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E3 Preparing for WODs Essay
date: 2020-09-29
labels:
  - Blog
  - WODs
---
This will be a review of my experience with the Invoice1 Work Out of the Day. In this WOD we created a sales receipt for 5 different products and assign variables for their names, prices, quantities, and extended prices. In addition to this, we also computed a sales tax, subtotal, and grand total. Next, we create an html table to organize the data we inputted. 

My overall experience with this assignment was a bit rough. Before this WOD, I was confident in my knowledge of variables and working the document.write code, but while working, I found myself making silly errors along the way, which slowed down my time when checking my work. I stumbled the most when doing the coding for inputting the first item into the table. I struggled with inputting a single quote when it should be a backtick, as well as putting the wrong type of slash before the dollar signs. 

I prepared for this assignment, by reviewing string templates, since my knowledge of this topic is a bit spotting and I also needed to review the code of a .html table. But after attempting to do the WOD once and learning that using the view source was an easier and more efficient way, the WOD became much faster. Compared to previous WODs, I think my preparation for this WOD was a lot less because it was a bit more straight forward and I was more familiar with the tasks. But the process was the same: read the WOD, look up topics I am unfamiliar with, attempt the WOD, watch the screencast and take notes, then reattempt the WOD.

For next time, I think I will try to attempt the WOD while doing the screencast rather than taking notes, then try to jot down the codes from memory. This will help me improve my memory of the code so that when I reattempt the WOD on my own, I am not making the same mistakes and will decrease the time I spend on doing the WOD. I will also check my work more often, after doing each task, so that I am not getting surprise issues later.
