---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E5: Reflecting on Assignment 2 Technical Essay
date: 2020-12-01
labels:
  - Blog
  - Assignemnt 2
---

Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details
In this essay, I will be referencing questions posted on the following webpage:<https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2_retrospective.html> and referring the assignment posted at <https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2.html>
In assignment 2, we were tasked with editing our basic products display to allow new users to register an account and previous users to login. One of the key requirements to this assignment was to prevent invalid values from being inputted during registration, such as preventing a new user from picking a preexisiting username. After successfully registering or logging in, users would be redirected to a persoanalized invoice.

What did you learn from this assignment?
Something that became apparent in assignment 2 was that everyone has a different way that they prefer to process data so their is no right or wrong answer. This is especially true when considering that everyone has different assignment 1s and therefroee different assignment 2s. Another thing that i learned was how to make amounts sticky. This was something that I did not do well in Assignment 1, so learning about it now was enjoyable.

Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).
I did not work with a partner for this assignment.

How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?
Aside from the labs, the most useful help I received for this assignment was from Professor Port. This was very effective when trying to solve an unexpected error output, and helped me a lot when I was completely lost with passing the transient data. It was nice to being able to understand what the solution was and why it was the best solution for me. Additionally, I got a lot of  help from the internet, especially when figuring out how to validate that the full name, for example, was only letters. I used the internet for quick fixes if I knew I had an issue with a certain code. I also referenced the labs, WODs, and readings a lot in Assignment 1 and this Assignement when formatting the login and registration pages. Lastly, I asked friends to check that my pages was running correctly on the server and also to look over my code if I made a mistake (I often found that i was mispelled variables or forgot a semicolon).

How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1?
This assignment was different because it was built upon assignment #1 so a lot of what I did for assignment #2 was dictated by how I approached the previous assignment. For example since I computed a lot of the amouns and pages on the server, it made more sense for me to make a usinversal variable. Also, in assignment #2 felt more difficult since we were juggling a lot of topics that were recently learned which made starting a bit difficult.

Estimate the % of the time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging
I spent about 15 percent of my time brainstorming how I wanted to set up and link the login and registration pages. Most of time was spent weighing if I wanted to use a query string or a universal variable. What helped was when the pros anc cons of each method was discussed during the workshop. 
About 35 percent of the time was spend writing the code for the assignment. A lot of time was taken by coding the data validation section to check the registration and login information.
I spent around 50 percent of the time testing and debugging my code. This is the hardest part of Assignemnt 2 in my opinion. I struggled with with finding errors and knowing what the specific error meant. I mainly overcame this issue by asking friends to look over my code.

Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?
The best part for me in this project was coding the login and registration pages. This is mainly because coding a page was something I was already familiar with from the last assignment. The part i struggled with the most was getting the transient data to transfer from the products display to the invoice.

If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?
If I could go back, I would take more time planning my route and code for the assignment. My beginning for this assignment was very brief so I feel more time trying to understand the assignment and working out a code would translate into a clearer organization of code and better time management. 
